# Troubleshooting

This section provides some troubleshooting tips related to BrowserMon service.

## Initial Checks

1. **Service Status**

   - **Windows:** Check if the service is running
        
     ```
     Start Menu > Services > BrowserMon
     ```
        
     Check the status of the service if it is running or not.
   
   - **Linux:** Check if the service is running
        
     ```bash
     systemctl status borwsermon.service
     ```
   
2. **Permissions**

   BrowserMon service is meant to run with the highest level of privileges. Although the service will give an error if not run as an Administrator, make sure when you install it, you run it as Admin.
   
3. **Logs**

   - Review the service logs and the runtime-generated logs by BrowserMon. BrowserMon generates logs in the following location:
   
     - Windows: `C:/browsermon/browsermon.log`
     - Linux: `/opt/browsermon/browsermon.log`
   
   - To see service logs that are logged by the operating system, do the following steps:
   
     - Windows: Typically found in "Event Viewer" > "Windows logs" > "Application" > "Browsermon"
     - Linux: Run the command `journalctl -u browsermon.service`

## Common Issues and Solutions

### Service Won’t start

If the service is not starting, review the logs of the service. If the service is crashing because of a runtime error, they will show in logs generated by the operating system. How to see logs? Please refer to **Logs** in the heading **Initial Checks**.

### Service is not behaving as expected

If the service is not behaving as expected in the configuration, make sure there are no errors in the `browsermon.conf` file. If it contains any errors or typos, BrowserMon service will use default configurations, which are:

```json
{
    'browser': 'all',
    'mode': 'scheduled',
    'schedule_window': '1m',
    'logdir': 'C:\\browsermon\\history' (Windows) or /opt/browsermon/history (Linux),
    'logmode': 'csv',
    'rotation': '1m',
    'backup_count': '5'
}
```
<br>
### History is not being logged

If the service is not logging history in the folder mentioned in the `browsermon.conf` file, make sure you supplied the correct folder and path, and indeed the folder exists where you wish the history to be written.

Still, if history is not being logged, you can do the following checks:

1. Make sure the "stop saving history" option in the browser is disabled.
2. Make sure sync is on; sometimes when sync is off, history might not get saved.
3. Restart the service.
4. Restart the computer.
5. Create a new profile and check if history of that file is being logged.

## Advanced Troubleshooting

### Windows

- Use **Event Viewer** to find detailed error messages.
- Execute `sfc /scannow` to check for and fix system file issues.
- Check Windows updates and apply any pending updates.

### Linux

- Run `dmesg | grep browser-monitor` to check for kernel or hardware-related errors.
- Check for and apply updates using your distribution’s package manager (e.g., `apt`, `yum`, etc.).
- Use `strace` to monitor system calls made by the service for advanced debugging.

## Contacting Support

Download the BrowserMon troubleshooter from the website, which will collect all logs and relevant information and save it into a file named `browsermon_archive.zip`, which you can then transfer to the team that will help you fix the issue.

### Privacy Disclaimer

BrowserMon troubleshooter collects all relevant information that can help debug the issue. For transparency, here is the list of items BrowserMon troubleshooter will collect:

1. `browsermon.log`
2. Installed Browser’s version Information
3. System Information (i.e., platform, platform version, architecture, IP address, MAC address, processor, and RAM)
4. Service Information
5. Troubleshooter will run `procmon` to fetch real-time event properties related to BrowserMon. For more information on what `procmon` monitors, please take a look at their site [here](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/sysinternals/downloads/procmon).

For further details, you can take a look at the troubleshooter script on Eunomatix’s [GitHub](https://www.github.com/eunomatix/browsermon).

### How to run troubleshooter?

Troubleshooter script is available on GitHub, which you can download and run:

`python browsermon.py troubleshoot --logs-dir <logs directory>`


BrowserMon troubleshooter comes with `procmon` (Process Monitor). The troubleshooter uses it to monitor real-time file system, Registry, and process/thread activity of BrowserMon process. This is only supported on Windows.

This will open a `procmon` window; minimize it and let it run in the background until the troubleshooter has collected all the information. Once the status is at 100%, you can exit the `procmon` window and the troubleshooter window. The troubleshooter will create a file named `browsermon_archive.zip` in the directory provided with command line option *--logs-dir*

